It is great that we have some
shapes that we are running,
but more interesting things
to do is when you can import
a model that is built,
maybe even with animation.
On our slides, if you go to the project
section how to load 3D model,
you can copy and
paste the code instead of typing it,
that might be a better way since we
have been having issues with typing.
I already have the file
here with AR.model,
pretty much everything that's
related to AR is exactly the same.
In the case that on select when
instead of creating a shape
when we see the reticle,
we are loading the model.
So first thing that we do
is import GLTF loader,
and the model that we have should be
under your disks and assets and models.
And one last thing to check
in this case is your Ts
config file should have the path for
assets.
Here in our own select function,
again we are checking if
the reticle is visible,
but also we are checking
if the model is loaded.
So we set it to false at the beginning,
and then once we load it,
we are going to set it to true so
that we don't load it twice.
This is kind of answering
the question we had earlier
about having multiple
models in the same spot,
if you are loading it just once,
then you get rid of that issue.
And for the models to be loaded
we have the model loader,
and we initiate a loading manager,
this is going to control the way
our loading is going to happen.
In our case, we have a GLTF loader,
and we pass in the manager and
we set the path to the assets.
So in this case, I have the church
Ayasofia from my hometown and
we are going to add that
model to our scene,
once we add the model,
then we will set model loader to true.
So as on select function,
we have the loader that loads,
the name of the model itself.
And then the path where it
is going to be added to it,
the path that we gave to our GLTF loader.
We've had a little fun,
we have a callback function,
when we have the GLTF,
we set the position of the GLTF,
the model itself from the matrix
position from the reticle matrix.
So, if you remember we were looking for
the reticle and
anytime if we have both reticle and
moral then we place it in
the exact location of the reticle,
and set the model loader to true.
And we have a error function that
you can add, you can also add
different on start, on load,
on progress functionality.
So if you want to for
example display a waiting wheel,
then you can use these on progress and
how much progress it is,
you can display it here.
Okay, and let's try to run this one,
now I'm going to change in my
HTML file under this index HTML,
instead of the ar.js I'm going
to run the aAR model.js,
Okay, and let's see, it should work,
I'm just going to restart my server just
in case because whenever you change,
I forgot to say, whenever you change HTML,
it doesn't necessarily pick up,
NPM, run dev.
Okay, now we have the server
running on port 3000,
we should be able to inspect it, so
I'm going to reload it here,
and let me open up my view,
I'm looking for a surface, once I find it,
click on it, and voila,
my model is loaded.
But it's frozen.
All right,
this is a very pretty big model,
this is from google.poly.org,
maybe that is why,
maybe because we are doing a lot of stuff,
I'll try it again.
Please walk around, in my house I
was able to go from room to room and
the model was still workable inside it,
which was really nice to see.
And the scale of it, you can change it,
you can even put some controls so
that people can have a smaller version
of it or a bigger version of it and
see the difference between the outside and
the inside.